Linux 200+ Technical Interview Questions:
In some questions I am encouraging to search online because it will help you practice for searching more complicated questions in the future
(Good Luck)

1.	When you login you get “$” prompt, what is the prompt for root?
#

2.	Explain the difference between grep and egrep?
grep stands for global regular expression print”, is a command used in searching and matching text files contained in the regular expressions.
egrep stands for Extended Global Regular Expression Print, command is a text processing tool that searches for patterns or regular expressions in a specified location. The tool provides the same output as grep -E , but works faster.

3.	What is the port # for DNS, NTP and NFS?
53,123 and 111/2049

4.	What is the configuration file name of DNS and where is it located?
/etc/named.conf

5.	How many new directories will be created after running the following command
mkdir {a..c}{1..3}
9

6.	Your PC is configured with a DNS server address but not the default gateway. Can the PC access internet?
No

7.	What is the difference between IP and Gateway?
An IP is an internet protocol address. Essentially, it is a numeric value assigned to a network device, and it is used for the identification and location of a network device. IP addresses are assigned to every type of network device.
A gateway IP refers to a device on a network which sends local network traffic to other networks. The subnet mask number helps to define the relationship between the host (computers, routers, switches, etc.) and the rest of the network.

8.	Can you assign one static IP to 2 computers, if not then why?
No because it will create IP conflict

9.	How to change IPs address to static?
ifconfig x.x.x.x

10.	You are trying to ping a server by hostname and you get an error message, “ping: unknown host …”.	What could be the reason and how to solve the problem so you can ping it by hostname?
Check for /etc/hosts or DNS to see if it has hostname to IP entry

11.	Explain the difference between relative and absolute path? Absolute path starts from / where relative path is your current directory

12.	List 3 different methods of adding user?
useradd xxxx
adduser xxxx
newusers user-list.txt

13.	What is the command to change file/directory ownership and group?
chown and chgrp

14.	List any 3 type of filesystem?
ext4,NTFS and FAT
 
15.	When you login you get a message on the screen.	What is the name of that file and where is it located?
/etc/motd

16.	What is /bin directory used for?
/bin directory contains user binaries, executable files, Linux commands that are used in single user mode, and common commands that are used by all the users, like cat, cp, cd, ls, etc.

17.	What are the different types of DNS Server
Master and secondary

18.	How to change a user password?
passwd username

19.	What is the version of Redhat Linux you have experience with?
7.4

20.	List any 4 linux distributions?
Redhat, CentOS, Ubuntu and SUSE

21.	How to logoff from the system?
exit

22.	Give any 3 examples of operating systems?
Windows, Linux and MAC

23.	How to create a directory?
mkdir

24.	Where are the zone files located for DNS service?
/var/named/zonefiles

25.	How to check kernel version?
uname –a

26.	Which directory has all the configuration files?
/etc

27.	How to become root user from a regular user?
su –

28.	How many mega bytes in 1 giga bytes?
1000

29.	What is the purpose of having different network ports?
So the communication of each application goes through a dedicated port

30.	How to display first column of a file?
cat filename | awk ‘{print $1}’

31.	What is the name of DNS rpm package?
bind

32.	What is the difference between nslookup and dig commands?
The nslookup command queries internet domain name servers in two modes.
The dig (domain information groper) command is a flexible tool for interrogating DNS name servers.

33.	How to check your user id and group id?
 
id

34.	How to check a file’s permission?
ls –l

35.	What is the difference between “kill” and “kill -9” command?
the kill command (located inside the /bin/kill) can be defined as a built-in command. It is used for manually terminating the processes. The behaviour of the kill command is slightly different among the shells and the /bin/kill standalone executable.
“ kill -9” command sends a kill signal to terminate any process immediately when attached with a PID or a processname. It is a forceful way to kill/terminate a or set of processes. “ kill -9 <pid> / <processname>” sends SIGKILL (9) — Kill signal.

36.	What is subnet?
A subnet is a group of hosts with IP addresses that are similar in a certain way. These hosts usually are in a proximate location from each other and you can easily send data to and from hosts on the same subnet.

37.	You are troubleshooting an issue with Redhat support and they have asked you to send the contents of /etc directory.	How and which method you will use to transfer the contents?
tar (compress) the entire /etc directory and ftp

38.	What is root home directory?
/root

39.	What is rsyslogd deamon and its purpose?
The rsyslogd daemon reads a socket and sends the message line to a destination that is specified by the /etc/rsyslog.conf configuration file. The rsyslogd daemon reads the configuration file when it is activated.

40.	Your company has terminated a server administrator. What is first thing as an administrator you should do to enhance the security? Change root password

41.	How to check the computer name or host name in Linux?
hostname

42.	Which permission allows a user to run an executable with the permissions of the owner of that file?
First 3 bits should have x

43.	What is the command to untar a tarred file?
untar

44.	What is /proc directory used for?
The /proc directory (also called the proc file system) contains a hierarchy of special files which represent the current state of the kernel, allowing applications and users to peer into the kernel's view of the system.

45.	What is the purpose of nsswitch.conf file
It tells the system where to go to resolve hostnames

46.	List 3 basic commands to navigate the filesystem?
cd, pwd and ls

47.	Which service/daemon should be running on the server that allows you to connect remotely?
sshd

48.	What is the purpose of firewall?
A firewall is essentially the barrier that sits between a private internal network and the public Internet. A firewall's main purpose is to allow non-threatening traffic in and to keep dangerous traffic out.

49.	List any 3 IT components?
Hardware, OS and Applications

50.	Which directory has all the commands we use, e.g. ls, cd etc.?
/usr/bin or /bin
 
51.	What is the difference between memory, virtual memory and cache?
The subsystem of Linux memory management is responsible to manage the memory inside the system. It contains the implementation of demand paging and virtual memory. Also, it contains memory allocation for user space programs and kernel internal structures.
Virtual memory is a way of representing your memory that's abstracted from the physical memory on your machine. It makes use of both your RAM and your storage space, whether that's on a traditional hard drive or an SSD. In Linux, this is done at the kernel and hardware levels.
It is that certain amount of system memory that the kernel reserves for caching the file system disk accesses. This is to make overall performance faster. During Linux read system calls, the kernel checks if the cache contains the requested blocks of data.

52.	Which of the following is correct?
a.	Hardware	  Operating System	  Users
b.	Operating System    Users  Hardware
c.	Database	  Hardware	 Users

53.	Which of the following is a communication command? o	grep
o	mail
o	touch
o	cd

54.	How to rename a file or directory?
mv

55.	How to change a hostname in Linux?
hostnamectl set-hostname xxxx	(or)
vi /etc/hostname

56.	How to check network interfaces in Linux?
ifconfig

57.	Why is “tail –f logfilename” command used most often and what does it do?
It will output all incoming logs in real time

58.	What type of hardware have you worked on?
You should get yourself familiar with Dell, HP and UCS hardware by going online and check the vendor websites

59.	How to sort a file in reverse order?
cat filename | sort –r

60.	What is the name of operating system that runs Unix?
Solaris, HP-UX etc.

61.	List all byte sizes from smallest to largest?
Byte: 1 Byte
Kilobyte: 1 thousand or, 1,000 bytes
Megabyte: 1 million, or 1,000,000 bytes
Gigabyte: 1 billion, or 1,000,000,000 bytes
Terabyte: 1 trillion, or 1,000,000,000,000 bytes
Petabye: 1 quadrillion, or 1,000,000,000,000,000 bytes
Exabyte: 1 quintillion, or 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes

62.	How to check the total number of partition in Linux?
fdisk -l

63.	How to access a linux system from a linux system?
ssh

64.	Explain the procedure of bonding 2 NICs or interfaces together?
Search online

65.	What is the exact command syntax to list the 5th column of a file and cut the first 3 letters?
cat filename | awk ‘{print $5}’ | cut –c1-3

66.	What is /etc/hosts file used for?
To resolve hostnames with IP address
 
67.	List any 3 options of ‘df’ command and what they are used for?
df : Display the Disk Space Usage
df -h : Show the disc space usage in a readable format
df -T : Show the file system type
df -i : Display inode information

68.	What is the command to change file/directory permissions?
chmod

69.	What is the purpose of pipe (|)?
To combine multiple commands

70.	What is /etc directory used for?
For configuration files

71.	Which command is used to list files in a directory?
ls –l

72.	There is a command which gives you information about other commands, please explain that command and what is it used for? man

73.	How to delete a file and a directory?
rm filename and rmdir dirname

74.	What is the difference between “tail” and “tail -10”?
None

75.	List 4 commands to display or read a file contents?
cat, more, less, vi

76.	Which command is used to read the top 5 lines of a file?
head -5 filename

77.	What are the different commands or methods to write to a file?
echo > filename and vi filename

78.	What is swap space and how to check swap space?
Swap space (also known as paging) is nothing but computer memory management involving swapping regions of memory to and from storage. 
swapon -s	(or)
free -m	(or)
cat /proc/swaps

79.	What is inode and how to find an inode of a file?
An inode is a data structure that keeps track of all the files and directories within a Linux or UNIX-based filesystem. So, every file and directory in a filesystem is allocated an inode, which is identified by an integer known as “inode number”. These unique identifiers store metadata about each file and directory.
Command: ls -ltri
-i flag the results for each file contains the file’s inode number

80.	Which file to edit for kernel tuning?
/etc/tunables/nextboot

81.	What is the latest version of Redhat?
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 (Plow)

82.	Name the command to find specific word from a file?
grep word filename

83.	You have scheduled a job using crontab but it does not run at the time you specified, what could be the reason and how would you troubleshoot?
Check your system time Check your crontab entry Check /var/log/messages

84.	How to check system hardware information?
 
dmidecode

85.	How to check network interface MAC address?
ifconfig

86.	If I don’t want others to read my file1, how to do that?
Remove r from the last 3 bits of file permission

87.	What is the purpose of “uniq” and “sed” command?
The uniq command can count and print the number of repeated lines. Just like duplicate lines, we can filter unique lines (non-duplicate lines) as well and can also ignore case sensitivity. We can skip fields and characters before comparing duplicate lines and also consider characters for filtering lines. 
The sed utility can be used to print the contents of a file, substitute a line (or multiple lines), and then save the file. In contrast to grep , sed can substitute a line or multiple lines in a file and perform an in-place update of that file.

88.	Which command is used to list the contents of a directory in the most recent time and in reverse order, meaning the most updated file should be listed on the bottom?
ls –ltr

89.	What is the difference between tar, gzip and gunzip?
Tar stands for tape archive and allows you to create backups using: tar , gzip , and bzip . It compresses files and directories into an archive file, known as a tarball. This command is one of the most widely-used commands for this purpose.
Gzip (GNU zip) is a compressing tool, which is used to truncate the file size. By default original file will be replaced by the compressed file ending with extension (. gz). To decompress a file you can use gunzip command and your original file will be back.
gunzip takes a list of files on its command line and replaces each file whose name ends with . gz, -gz, . z, -z, _z or . Z and which begins with the correct magic number with an uncompressed file without the original extension.

90.	What are the different ways to install and OS?
DVD, DVD iso and network boot

91.	How to view difference between two files?
diff file1 and file2

92.	You noticed that one of the Linux servers has no disk space left, how would you troubleshoot that issue?
If running LVM then add more disk and extend LVM
If not running LVM then add more disk, create a new partition and link the new partition to an existing filesystem

93.	How to check Redhat version release?
uname –a or /etc/redhat-release

94.	What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
What is Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)? Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation by which applications can exchange data. TCP works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send packets of data to each other.
User datagram protocol (UDP) operates on top of the Internet Protocol (IP) to transmit datagrams over a network. UDP does not require the source and destination to establish a three-way handshake before transmission takes place.

95.	What is a zombie process?
Search online

96.	How do you search for a pattern/word in a file and then replace it in an entire file?
sed command

97.	Explain the purpose of “touch” command?
To create an empty file

98.	If a command hangs, how to stop it and get the prompt back?
Ctrl C

99.	Which command is used to count words or lines?
wc

100.	How to check the number of users logged in?
who

101.	What is the command to view the calendar of 2011?
 
cal 2011

102.	Which command is used to view disk space?
df –h

103.	How to create a new group in Linux?
groupadd

104.	What is the command to send a message to everyone who is logged into the system?
wall

105.	Which command is used to check total number of disks?
fdisk –l

106.	What is an mail server record in DNS?
MX

107.	What does the following command line do? ps -ef | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq
List the first column	of all running processes, sort them and remove duplicates

108.	You get a call that when a user goes to www.yourwebsite.com it fails and gets an error, how do you troubleshoot?
Check for user internet
Check to see if user computer has DNS for hostname lookup Check to see if the server is up that is running that website Check to see if the server’s web service is running
Check for DNS availability which is resolving that website

109.	List 4 different directories in /?
/etc, /bin, /tmp, /home

110.	What is the output of the following command:
$tail -10 filename | head -1
It will show the first line from the last 10 lines of a file

111.	What are the different fields in /etc/passwd file?
User name
Encrypted password
User ID number (UID)
User's group ID number (GID)
Full name of the user (GECOS)
User home directory
Login shell

112.	Which command is used to list the processes?
ps –ef

113.	What is the difference between “hostname” and “uname” commands? Hostname will give you system name and uname will give you OS information

114.	How to check system load?
top and uptime command

115.	How to schedule jobs?
crontab and at

116.	What is the 3rd field when setting up crontab?
Day of the month
 
117.	What is the command to create a new user?
useradd

118.	What is the “init #” for system reboot?
6
119.	How to restart a service?
systemctl restart servicename

120.	How to shutdown a system?
shutdown or init 0

121.	What is “ftp” command used for?
To transfer files from one computer to another

122.	Explain cron job syntax?	First is minute, second is..?
Min, house, day of the month, month, day of the week and command

123.	How to delete a package in Linux?
rpm –e packagename

124.	What is the file name where user password information is saved?
/etc/shadow

125.	Which command you would use to find the location of chmod command?
which chmod

126.	Which command is used to check if the other computer is online?
ping othercomputer

127.	Please explain about LAN, MAN and WAN?
A local area network (LAN) consists of a series of computers linked together to form a network in a circumscribed location. The computers in a LAN connect to each other via TCP/IP ethernet or Wi-Fi.
A metropolitan area network (MAN) is a computer network that connects computers within a metropolitan area, which could be a single large city, multiple cities and towns, or any given large area with multiple buildings. A MAN is larger than a local area network (LAN) but smaller than a wide area network (WAN).
A wide-area network (WAN) is the technology that connects your offices, data centers, cloud applications, and cloud storage together. It is called a wide-area network because it spans beyond a single building or large campus to include multiple locations spread across a specific geographic area, or even the world.

128.	How to list hidden files in a directory?
ls –la

129.	What is the difference between telnet and ssh?
ssh is secure where telnet is not

130.	How to run a calculator on Linux and exit out of it?
bc and quit

131.	List any 4 commands to monitor system?
top, df –h, iostat, dmesg

132.	You are notified that your server is down, list the steps you will take to troubleshoot?
Check the system physically Login through system console Ping the system
Reboot or boot if possible

133.	What is difference between static and DHCP IP?
An IP (internet protocol) address is a number that identifies each device on a network. With a static IP address, this unique number stays the same. With a DHCP (dynamic host configuration protocol) address, this number is automatically assigned to each device from a pool of available numbers on the network.

134.	How to write in vi editor mode?
i = insert, a = insert in next space, o = insert in new line
 
135.	What is the difference between “crontab” and “at” jobs?
crontab is for repetitive jobs where at is for one time job

136.	What is vCenter server in VMWare?
vCenter Server is the centralized management utility for VMware, and is used to manage virtual machines, multiple ESXi hosts, and all dependent components from a single centralized location. VMware vMotion and svMotion require the use of vCenter and ESXi hosts.

137.	What is “dmidecode” command used for?
To get system information

138.	What is the difference between SAN and NAS?
NAS is a single storage device that serves files over Ethernet and is relatively inexpensive and easy to set up, while a SAN is a tightly coupled network of multiple devices that is more expensive and complex to set up and manage.

139.	What is the location of system logs? E.g. messages
/var/log directory

140.	How to setup an alias and what is it used for?
alias aliasname=”command”
It is used to created short-cuts for long commands

141.	What is the purpose of “netstat” command?
The netstat command generates displays that show network status and protocol statistics. You can display the status of TCP and UDP endpoints in table format, routing table information, and interface information. The most frequently used options for determining network status are: s , r , and i .

142.	What are terminal control keys, list any 3?
Crtl C, D and Z

143.	Which command(s) you would run if you need to find out how many processes are running on your system?
ps –ef | wc –l

144.	What are the different types of shells?
sh, bash, ksh, csh etc.

145.	How to delete a line when in vi editor mode?
dd

146.	Which is the core of the operating system?
a)	Shell
b)	Kernel
c)	Commands
d)	Script

147.	Which among the following interacts directly with system hardware?
a)	Shell
b)	Commands
c)	Kernel
d)	Applications

148.	How to save and quit from vi editor?
Shift ZZ or :wq!

149.	What is the difference between a process and daemon?
A daemon is also called background processes. It is a UNIX or Linux program that executes inside the background. Almost every daemon contains names that finish with "d" the letter. For example, sshd, this manages connections of SSH remote access, or the httpd daemon that manages the Apache server.

150.	What is the process or daemon name for NTP?
ntpd
 
151.	What are a few commands you would run if your system is running slow?
top, iostat, df –h, netstat etc.

152.	How to install a package in Redhat Linux?
yum install packagename

153.	What is the difference between “ifconfig” and “ipconfig” commands?
ifconfig for Linux and ipconfig for Windows

154.	What is the first line written in a shell script?
Define shell
e.g. #!/bin/bash

155.	Where is the network (Ethernet) file located, please provide exact directory location and file name?
/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-nic

156.	Why do we use “last” command?
To see who has logged in the system whether active or logged off

157.	What is RHEL Linux stands for?
Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating system.

158.	To view your command history, which command is used and how to run a specific command?
history and history #

159.	What is NTP and briefly explain how does it work and where is the config files and related commands of NTP?
Search online

160.	How to disable firewall in Linux?
systemctl stop firewalld
systemctl disable firewalld

161.	How to configure mail server relay for sendmail service?
Edit /etc/mail/sendmail.mc file and add SMART_HOST entry

162.	Where is samba log file located?
/var/log/samba

163.	What is mkfs command used for?
To create a new filesystem

164.	If you create a new group, which file does it get created in?
/etc/group

165.	Which file has DNS server information (e.g. DNS resolution)?
/etc/resolv.conf

166.	What are the commands you would run if you need to find out the version and build date of a package (e.g. http)?
rpm –qi http
 
167.	On the file permissions? What are the first 3 bits for and who is it for?
Read, write and execute.	They are used for the owner of the file

168.	How to create a soft link?
ln –s
169.	How to write a script to delete messages in a log file older than
30 days automatically?
Search online

170.	How to quit out of “man” command?
q

171.	Which command is used to partition disk in Linux?
fdisk

172.	What is the difference between “shutdown” and “halt” command?
halt brings the system down to its lowest state, but leaves it powered on. shutdown brings the system down to its lowest state, and will turn off power (soft power switch) if it can.

173.	What is the exact syntax of mounting NFS share on a client and also how to un-mount?
Search online

174.	What experience do you have with scripting, explain?
if-the, do-while, case, for loop scripts

175.	How to get information on all the packages installed on the system?
rpm –qa

176.	Explain VMWare?
Search online

177.	You are tasked to examine a log file in order to find out why a particular application keep crashing. Log file is very lengthy, which command can you use to simplify the log search using a search string?
grep for error, warning, failure etc. in /var/log/messages file

178.	What is /etc/fstab file and explain each column of this file?
blockdevice mountpoint filesystemtype mountoptions shouldthefilesystembedumped fsckorder
/dev/sdb1   /data	     xfs	        defaults	   0	                         0

179.	What the latest version of Windows server?
Search online

180.	What is the exact command to list only the first 2 lines of history output?
history | head -2

181.	How to upgrade Linux from 7.3 to 7.4?
yum install update

182.	How to tell which shell you are in or running?
$0
 
183.	You have tried to “cd” into a directory but you have been denied. You are not the owner of that directory, what permissions do you need and where?
- - - - - - - r – x

184.	What is CNAME record in DNS?
Entry for hostname to hostname

185.	What is the name of VMWare operating system?
ESXi

186.	What is the client name used to connect to ESXi or vCenter server?
vSphere client

187.	You get a call from a user saying that I cannot write to a file because it says, permission denied.	The file is owned by that user, how do you troubleshoot?
Give write permission on the first 3 bits

188.	What is the latest version of VMWare?
Search online

189.	What is the name of firewall daemon in Linux?
firewalld

190.	Which command syntax you can use to list only the 20th line of a file?
Search online

191.	What is the difference between run level 3 and 5?
3 = Boot system with networking, 5 = boot system with networking and GUI

192.	List a few commands that are used in troubleshooting network related issue?
netstat, tcpdump etc.

193.	What is the difference between domain and nameserver?
What is domain? Specific to the internet, the term domain can refer to how the internet is structured, and domain also refers to how an organization's network resources are organized. In general, a domain is an area of control or a sphere of knowledge
Name servers translate the domain name into an IP address, connecting information that's easy for humans to understand with information that's easy for computers to understand. You can think of the process like a map.

194.	You open up a file and it has 3000 lines and it scrolled up really fast, which command you will use to view it one page at a time?
more or less

195.	How to start a new shell. E.g. start a new ksh shell?
Simply type ksh, or bash

196.	How to kill a process?
kill processID

197.	How to check scheduled jobs?
crontab –l
 
198.	How to check system memory and CPU usage?
free and top

199.	Which utility could you use to repair the corrupted file system?
fsck

200.	What is the command to make a service start at boot?
systemctl enable servicename

201.	How to combine 2 files into 1? E.g. you 3 lines in file “A” and 5 lines in file “B”, which command syntax to use that will combine into one file of 3+5 = 8 lines
cat fileA >> fileB

202.	What is echo command used for?
To output to a screen

203.	What does the following command do?
echo This year the summer will be great > file1
It will create a new file “file1” with the content as “This year the summer will be great”

204.	Which file to modify to allow users to run root commands
/etc/sudoers

205.	You need to modify httpd.conf file but you cannot find it, Which command line tool you can use to find file?
find / -name “httpd.conf”

206.	Your system crashed and being restarted, but a message appears, indicating that the operating system cannot be found. What is the most likely cause of the problem?
The /boot file is most likely corrupted


Linux Admin Interview Troubleshooting Questions and Answers:

1) You get a call that when a user goes to www.yourwebsite.com it fails and gets an error, how do you troubleshoot? 

Ans: Check for user internet 
Check to see if user computer has DNS for hostname lookup 
Check to see if the server is up that is running that website 
Check to see if the server’s web service is running 
Check for DNS availability which is resolving that website

2) You have scheduled a job using crontab but it does not run at the time you specified, what could be the reason and how would you troubleshoot? 

Ans: Check your system time 
Check your crontab entry 
Check /var/log/messages

3) You noticed that one of the Linux servers has no disk space left, how would you troubleshoot that issue? 

Ans: If running LVM then add more disk and extend LVM 
If not running LVM then add more disk, create a new partition and link the new partition to an existing filesystem

4) You are trying to ping a server by hostname and you get an error message, “ping: unknown host …”. What could be the reason and how to solve the problem so you can ping it by hostname? 

Ans: Check for /etc/hosts or DNS to see if it has hostname to IP entry

5) You are notified that your server is down, list the steps you will take to troubleshoot? 

Ans: Check the system physically 
Login through system console 
Ping the system 
Reboot or boot if possible

6) How to fix df –h command hangs on RHEL7/Centos7?

Ans: Option 1: Reinstall systemd package:reinstalled the systemd package and the issue is resolved without rebooting the server.

yum reinstall systemd

Option 2: Check the file /etc/mtab

Check the file /etc/mtab, by default in RHEL 7 /etc/mtab is symbolic link to /proc/self/mounts and check the permissions as well.

cat /etc/mtab

7) How to fix a corrupted file system in Linux?

Ans: fsck /dev/sdb1
xfs_repair /dev/sdb1
df -T
umount /data
df -T
xfs_repair /dev/sdb1
echo $?
mount /dev/sdb1 /data
df -h

(or)

Unmount the device:
umount /dev/sdb1
fsck -p /dev/sdb1
mount /dev/sdb1

8) How to Backup and restore?

Ans: System backup (dd command):
dd if=/dev/sdb1 of=/data/boot.img
ls -l /data/boot.img
dd if=/data/boot.img /dev/sdb1 (for restore)

9) How to Check the Load Average in Linux?

Ans: Using commands:

uptime	(or)
top

“load average: 0.03, 0.03, 0.01”

The first value depicts the average load on the CPU for the last minute
The second gives us the average load for the last 5-minute interval
The third value gives us the 15-minute average load

10) How to check the listening ports and applications?

Ans: Using commands:

netstat -tulnp (or)
ss -nutlp (or)
lsof -i

11) What is an inode?

Ans: An inode is a data structure that keeps track of all the files and directories within a Linux or UNIX-based filesystem. So, every file and directory in a filesystem is allocated an inode, which is identified by an integer known as “inode number”. These unique identifiers store metadata about each file and directory.

Metadata stored in an inode

Inodes store metadata such as:

File type
File size
Owner ID
Group ID
Read, write and execute permissions
Last access time
Last change time
Last modification time

Command: ls -ltri

-i flag the results for each file contains the file’s inode number

12) How to Clear Cache in Linux?

Ans: 1. Clear PageCache only.
sync; echo 1 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches
2. Clear dentries and inodes.
sync; echo 2 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches
3. Clear pagecache, dentries, and inodes.
sync; echo 3 > /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches


