what is Terraform and how does it differ from other IaC tools like CloudFormation or ARM templates?
Ans:-  Terraform is an Infrastructure as code(Iac) tool, that you define cloud resources in config files( .tf) and manage their lifecycle.
       CloudFormation is for Aws only & ARM is for Azure only.... comming to terraform is multi-cloud(Aws, Azure.Gcp,...etc).

what are terraform providers and how do they work?
Ans:- Providers are plugins(e.g., aws, azure, k8s, gcp) that intaract with cloud API's
      Example:-
                  providers "aws" {
                      region = "us-east-1"
                  }
      terraform downlodes providers during terraform init

Explain the difference b/w terraform plan & terraform apply?
Ans:-  Plan: Dry run --> shows what changes will be made(no action required).
       apply:  Excutes the changes(creates/updates infrastructure)

what is the purpose of terraform state file?
Ans:-  
How do you manage scerets in terraform?
what are modules in terraform  and how do you use them?
How does remote state work and why it is important?
what are workspaces in terraform?
How do you handle Terraform code in CI/CD Pipeline?
what is the diff b/w Count and for_each?
How dou Handle dependencies in Terraform?
what is local-exec and remote-exec in terraform?
How do you import existing infrastructure into terraform?
what is terraform taint?
How do you manage terraform versions?
How do you debug terrafrom errors?
what are terraform provisioners, and when should they be used?
what is Sentinel in Terraform?
How do you Optimize terraform performance for large infrastructure?
How would you handle a situation where terraform state is out of sync with actual infrastructure?
How do you roll back changes in terraform?
what would you do if terraform apply fails midway?
How do you share terraform modules across teams?
How  can you manage multiple environments (Dev, Prod) with Terrafrom?
Write a Terraform script to create an Aws Ec2 Instance?
How do you modularize a terraform configuration for VPC?
Write a terraform configuration using for_each to create a multiple S3 buckets?

